THE IMPORTANCE OF AN INCLUSIVE SOCIETY
Last week, I was at AND& Connect, a conference about entreperneurship, modern IT and intersections.
I had a great time, learned from professionals and met some interesting people. People at those kind of conferences are giving their vision of the future, and it's always interesting to hear what they have to say.
Sustainability in combination with IT and entreperneurship was one of the main topics. Other examples of intersections were music, arts and wellbeing in combination with modern technology.
Especially I loved the presentation or Mauriz Engelen from Praga Khan. It's a privelege to seo one of you favoriute musicians speaking at a conference and sharing their vieuws about the intersection of music and technology.
Speaking about the intersections of different topics and IT, it's most of the time linked to newer concepts like Web3, Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Internet of Things, etc.
Talking about AI (Artificial Intelligence), the hot topic is generative AI. AI that can create new things, like music, arts, quotes and texts from a 'prompt'. 
A prompt is nothing more than an instruction in written words in 'human sentences'. For example, you can give a prompt to an AI to create a new song. 
The prompt can be something like: "Create a new song in the style of the Beatles". The AI will then create a new song in the style of the Beatles.

Generative AI will be everywhere and is at this time already at a lot of places. It's also a tool in the startups and entreperneurship world. 
It can be used to create texts, answers on questions, and automate stuff that is needed in a business but out of the expertise of the founders. 
For example, I am not good in making banners and flyers, so I can use Generative AI like GPT-3 in combination  with design software to create banners and flyers.
Those new AI can also support people with some 'gaps' or difficulties. For example, people with autism can use AI to help them with social interactions.

There are some problems, by example a lot of experts working on Sustainability are worried about the energy consumption of AI.
Also on the legel part there are big questions. Some experts are calling big tech companies working with AI to take a break and focus more about 
the ethical part of AI and boil this down in new regulations.

There is one thing I am missing. This is the focus on an inclusive society for people with disabilities. I believe that AI can help people with disabilities,
to help the with a big QoL (Quality of Life) improvement. This can be the use of AI to help people with disabilities to do their job, but also to help them
with their social interactions and to help them to be more independent.

An inclusive society requires the building of sofware interfaces that are accessible for people with disabilities. If you are only building software,
that is useful for the 'fully abled able majority', that is in fact a paradox, because it's way less majority than most people think,
you risk that people with disabilities are pushed towards institutions and clinics again like in the ages before the 2000's. In those times it was a 
common thing that those people didn't belong to society. They were put in institutions and clinics, and were not allowed to participate in society.

My vision is that we need to be aware of the risk of technology for the better of the climate, like digitalizing everything, doing each interaction with apps,
we may exclude people without the ability to read, by example people with a intellectual disability. If they cannot go to the grocery store anymore,
the café, a restaurant they will become dependent on others. Others will decide what's allowed or not. Fox example: Should Mark drink a pint or not,
Is Mellissa allowed to eat a piece of cake or not, etc. David loves Metal Music but because he has no friends with the same metal-music interest.
As a result he cannot go but need to go to a specific festival organized for people with disabilities with only mainstream pop music. 
NO! We need to prevent this. This is not a future. In a good future we need to be mindfull of everyone and include everyone. 
If software can be build to help people with disabilities and has a a positive impact on the climate too it's OK. But we cannot make trade-offs.

I hope that the society is becoming mindful of this and conferences also add talks and speakers about accessibility.

There wa one funny part! I endjoyed the conference as I said but I really missed visions about accessibility and inclusion. But then, it happened!
I walked from the venue to the train station to take the train and there was a booth of people from 'Onanfhankelijk Leven' (Independent Living)
on the square close to the station. This action from Onanfhankelijk Leven was seperated from the conference but it was such a statement to show people:
"Don't Forget us!" This was such a nice "co-incidence" and I was so happy to see this. I hope that the conference organizers, speakers and visitors saw them too!
